# FTS_project

101 Formulaic Alphas[Zura Kakushadze 2015] constructed 101 alphas using price and volume data. We will treat them as anomalies or features. The goal of this project is to implement the alphas and Fama-French 5 factors model as a base cross-sectional model, then develop a time-series model on residuals of each stock.

The cross-sectional model:

$$

\text{r}_{i} = \alpha 
\\ + [\beta_{\alpha_1} \alpha_1 + \beta_{\alpha_2} \alpha_2 + \cdots]  \text{ (1)}

\\ + [\beta_{Mkt-RF} \text{Mkt-RF}_{t} + \cdots]  \text{ (2)}

\\ + \epsilon_{i}
$$

where:
- (1) is 101 alphas (features, anomalies)
- (2) is Fama-French 5 factors model

Then we can use the residuals of the cross-sectional model as a time-series model. 

We could further construct a investment strategy using a combination of cross-sectional selection and time-series model. 

> Note: the 101 Formulaic Alphas paper stored in `docs/101_formulaic_alphas.pdf`.

## Python Environment setup

Using conda to create a virtual environment for the project.

```bash
conda create -n FTS python=3.12.7
conda activate FTS
```

Install dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## File Structure

```plaintext
.
|-- README.md
|-- data
|   |-- raw
|   |-- alpha
|   |-- concat
|-- src
|   |-- data_module
|   |   |-- __init__.py
|   |   |-- raw_data_process.py      # calculate alphas using raw data
|   |   |-- alpha.py                 # alpha calculation methods
|   |   |-- factor.py                # Sorting grouping methods to calculate factor returns
```

## Data Overview

### `data/raw`

This folder contains the raw data files. The data is in CSV format stored in `stock_symbol.csv` files. Example: `AAPL.csv`.

The data contains the following columns:

- `trade_date`: The date of the trade.
- `open`
- `high`
- `low`
- `close`
- `vol`: volume
- `pct_change`: percentage change
- `vwap`: volume weighted average price

### `data/alphas_by_symbol`

This folder been ignored in the git repository. However, it is generated by `calculate_alphas_example.py`, check the file for more details.

It contains the alpha files for each stock symbol. The data is in CSV format stored in `stock_symbol.csv` files. Example: `AAPL.csv`.

Columns include:

- all columns from the raw data
- all alphas name

### `data/alphas_by_name`

This folder been ignored in the git repository. However, it is generated by `calculate_alphas_example.py`, check the file for more details.

It simply regroups the data from `data/alphas_by_symbol` to `data/alphas_by_name` folder. The data is in CSV format stored in `alpha_name.csv` files. Example: `alpha_1.csv`.

Columns include:

- trade_date
- all stock symbols
